David Thomson: Hello!
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Hey!
David Thomson: Evening testing my microphone.
David Thomson: Good evening.
Mapule Sedirwa: Hello! Good morning! Actually from my side.
David Thomson: Good morning morning.
David Thomson: What time is it? Are you at.
Mapule Sedirwa: It's 1 am.
David Thomson: Oh, well, thank you for joining us.
Mapule Sedirwa: Thank you.
David Thomson: Can you see my screen? I'm sharing my screen.
Mapule Sedirwa: Yes, I can see your screen. Thank you.
David Thomson: Oh, good! Good!
Suzanne Harkin: Yes.
David Thomson: Fantastic. I this is only my second Zoom Meeting on my new laptop, which is a macbook. And
David Thomson: I'm all typically a windows person, and I'm having trouble adjusting to
David Thomson: to this. I like it. But you know, it's a little different for me, so I'm always nervous about that.
Mapule Sedirwa: Okay. I hope you're able to navigate with that.
David Thomson: I've got my ipad in front of me, just in case if you see me looking down, it's because I'm looking at my ipad to to check out what's next?
Mapule Sedirwa: Okay, no. Problem. Thank you.
David Thomson: Sure, but I'm really really familiar with this presentation. So.
Mapule Sedirwa: Okay, are you gonna save it on Youtube or somewhere on Ipa.
David Thomson: Yeah. Well, we're making a recording Jordan. I don't know
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Yeah, yeah, we we do have plans to to put this up on Youtube. That's actually something I'm doing in the background. September.
Mapule Sedirwa: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
David Thomson: Checking the time, Jordan. We probably give it a few minutes right before we get going.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: I think so. I mean, yeah, I think, so.
David Thomson: Jordan, you think another minute.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Yeah, I think 7 to 5 should be should be perfect.
David Thomson: Sure.
David Thomson: Okay, I got 7 0, 5. Jordan, you do. You want to start us off tonight?
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Sure. Yeah, thanks for joining us.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Oh, no, no, you're good. So my name is Jordan. I'm the President of the East Tennessee chapter of the Irba excited for all of y'all to join us. We've got david Thompson giving a presentation on
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: chapter 2 of the Babak.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: and I can't say enough about David and his his knowledge of this material. So you are in in very, very good hands tonight. This presentation will be up on Youtube shortly after the session.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: We'll send out an email after the event with a with a link. Yeah. So anyway, thanks for joining us. Everyone
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: over to you, David.
David Thomson: Alright. Thanks. Thanks. Jordan. Yeah. Jordan. Thank you.
David Thomson: Welcome everybody tonight, if you if you've never joined East Tennessee, Iiba
David Thomson: study session. We do these almost monthly. We save monthly but sometimes, you know, we skip a month here and there, depending on people's schedules, and and that kind of stuff. But what we
David Thomson: we've been doing and we're continuing to do in 2025 here is go over
David Thomson: the Babak, you know, for people, you know, people who want to learn more about business analysis maybe learn some new things or folks that are interested in any of the certifications. The Iba course certifications. And that's really what a lot of people focus on, too, is is getting certifications, whether it's the
David Thomson: Ecba, the Ccba Cbab, any of those that based directly on the Babak? We focus on that, and I try to give study tips on those as well, last month we had we had a session on just
David Thomson: it was an overview of Iba and also we talked about
David Thomson: Pmi's business analysis certifications and talked about study strategies and everything like that. So that's that's a good resource, that's 1 we do. We try to do at least once a year and and so what we're doing now is we're really kicking it off again.
David Thomson: We're gonna consistently go through the through the bad box over the next several months we are gonna throw in not exactly sure which month we are gonna throw in a study, a monthly study session about product ownership analysis. So that's that's a that's a really great topic, especially with a lot of teams doing agile. But tonight's topic, is about key concepts and business analysis, planning and monitoring
David Thomson: key concepts is like the very beginning of the Babak.
David Thomson: And if you're taking the Ecba exam. And the Ccpa Ccba or Cbap. I'll go. But definitely, if you're taking the Ecba as a good area to to study on the key concepts. Business analysis, planning and monitoring also called bapm is is the 1st knowledge area in the Baboc. So, as I said before.
David Thomson: you know, everything we do in here is based on the Babak. I'm David Thompson. You see, I have some initials out past my name. I've I've done the Cbap and Cpoa and Aac. I'm also scrum alliance certified as a scrum master and and product owner as well. So I've been teaching on the Babak for
David Thomson: oh.
David Thomson: about 3 or 4 years now, and it's a pleasure of mine to do this. I'm definitely glad to be affiliated with the Iba in East Tennessee. I'm past President. And now Jordan has is leading our chapter, really doing a great job. So we're going to continue these. So enough about that. Let's
David Thomson: let's dig in to the topic here. So let's see, I can get my Mac to work right? Okay. Good. As I said before, everything we're doing in here is based on the back. So while I do put a little bit of spin and my interpretation on things. If you are planning to take any certification tests, you definitely need to know oops! Oops. Sorry! Let me go back. I have this touchy. It's called a magic magic Trackpad. Oops. There, I'm going further and further. Let's see?
David Thomson: Let's see, I'll go page up.
David Thomson: Okay, yeah. Here we go. everything we do is about by the battle, especially if you're taking
David Thomson: going to take any of the certification exams. It's good to know the Babak inside and out as much as possible, and then also some of the material that I talk about is garnered from watermark learning Cbap certification. They've got some. It's a great. It's actually, I think, a little bit thicker than the Babak itself, but it kind of does a great job of interpreting, and that's a resource that I found extremely valuable when I was studying for my
David Thomson: for my Cpap. So
David Thomson: let's see, let's so we'll start off talking about the business analysis core concepts. Here are some of the things we're just gonna really, we don't have time to go into every little detail. Obviously, we're we're gonna do a knowledge area and the key concepts. So just give you a quick overview. But it's really important to if you
David Thomson: if you've started reading the Babak, if you've never read the Babak, I tell people it's a sure cure for insomnia. If you can't sleep at night, it'll put you to sleep. You really need to read it when you're awake in the daytime. But you know definitely, if you're interested in any of the certification exams. Knowing these key concepts, these are just core through all of the certification exams. So there's things like the Backham, the business analysis core concept model
David Thomson: that there's key terms. And we'll go over. Some of those are really high level.
David Thomson: There's the requirements classification, schema. And there's a little bit. We'll talk about stakeholders. And then what is requirements and design. So
David Thomson: let's see, I'm gonna stick to my keyboard for going up and down in this.
David Thomson: So let's start with business analysis. Core concept, model.
David Thomson: the business analysis core concept model.
David Thomson: Let's see, is
David Thomson: is the way of classifying every every knowledge area that you have. Every every knowledge area has. You know, you need to think about what the changes are that are made, what the solutions are, in what context.
David Thomson: what is the value of the solution? Who are your stakeholders, and what are their needs?
David Thomson: And here's a mnemonic that the watermark suggests. So I've organized them in that way, they say, in order to remember this. And if you are going to take an exam, it's good to learn these vision success value solution need stakeholder change context. Just use the 1st letter of these to help you. Remember that it's a tool to help you. Remember something you don't necessarily have to have it all memorized. But this helps
David Thomson: when you're thinking about some of the questions that might be on one of the exams, or just, you know, in your daily life. It helps you to remember those your business analysis that you're doing from day to day. But if you'll see this diagram. This is directly out of the Babak
David Thomson: you'll see that on on every knowledge area of the Babak
David Thomson: that it applies this core concept model. And the Babak explains how each knowledge area is affected by by each of these core concepts.
David Thomson: So it's something you'll see over and over again in the Babak, for every knowledge area.
David Thomson: It's the basis for business analysis, you know, it's a conceptual framework for all the business analysis work. Each of them are interrelated. What they said. This is direct from and transit industries and change initiatives or global perspectives. Each of them is equally important when you think about it. Yeah, there really are things you have to take take into account for every initiative that you work on.
David Thomson: And it's critical for helping. You understand all the business analysis tasks that you're doing. You see, my little, you'll see this throughout my presentation anywhere. There's an exam tip or a study tip. It's really important to know the back of them, I said, inside and out, no vacuum inside and out. That's what I suggest. If you're taking any of the exams
David Thomson: so we'll break this down. What is each one? What changed? You know? Bible defines it as an act of transformation in response to a need.
David Thomson: You need to think about when you're when you're working on initiative. What are the kind of changes we're doing, you know, here's a couple of examples process improvement or resolving some issues. This is a, we need to make a change to resolve issues or improve this process. Or you know, there's other different changes you need to. It's important for the team to align on what those changes are.
David Thomson: And then
David Thomson: the need. Obviously, you know, business analysis is a response to what their business needs are, you know, there's a there's an opportunity or some kind of problem, you know, business might might come up with. Oh, we need this. We need that we need. You know, there's always a you know. There's the 5 wise you can use to kind of really find out what the real need is, you know, the the couple of options here, you know, are are examples.
David Thomson: increase the number of customer orders. Why do you need to increase the number of customer orders because we're not making enough money and our products. We have too much inventory, for example, what whatever there's as you get into it. You can
David Thomson: get more into the core need of what is need to stabilize the system that's frequently offline due to system pressures. There's some kind of. We need need to figure out what's going on here. You know, we need to. We need to. Figure out, you start thinking of solutions. Once you understand, the core need
David Thomson: the solution. A lot of times we think of the solution before we really have a good understanding of what the deed is. But that's just how we are. That's how a lot of folks are wired, you know, they're like, Oh, I can fix this. No, no, you don't even know the problem, but I can fix it so. You know a lot of times it's like, Hey, we didn't know we had a problem, but we see this shiny new object, and
David Thomson: we know that that's a solution. Well, what's the need? What's the business need? What? What are you? What are you trying to accomplish. What are your goals? What's the business value for that? And asking about that, you know.
David Thomson: But the solution, you know, could always be like a new system, or a process change, or or something like that. So that
David Thomson: gives a little bit of background what the solution could be. Stakeholders.
David Thomson: and it's important. We'll talk a little bit more about stakeholders when we talk about the itself. Business analysis, planning and monitoring. But here, here's a good breakdown of what some stakeholders could be. These are the folks that you go to that are are gonna be impacted or have a a stake in what's being changed, or what the initiative is, or or what the problem is.
David Thomson: And so here's some examples. You know, customers, domain subject matter, experts. It's always good to know the people that know what's really going on. You know, those could be like support people or technical folks, or the folks that are, you know, impacted by it.
David Thomson: The end users could also be the customers. The project managers who are kind of help bring this along, regulators, which is really important, especially if you're working in a in a industry where there is some government oversight or accountability that is needed for different regulations.
David Thomson: Who sponsors are who your sponsors could be, and then, maybe, who some suppliers are as you go through the Babak, and you think about any you think about your day to day work. You'll think about these these stakeholders. Sometimes their titles may be different, but it's it's really good idea. We'll talk a little bit about a stakeholder matrix. That is a really good way to help track who your stakeholders are.
David Thomson: Little bit later.
David Thomson: What is the context? This is about? What is happening. You know what? What are the circumstances? It says that are influenced are that influence are influenced by of the change. You know the changes in the middle and and context, what is be being changed? Well, how is this gonna impact that? So? Here's some examples. Our competitors have a solution that makes customer ordering user. And we're losing customers to them.
David Thomson: And you think about it. We're all that way as consumers. You're like, I like this website better. I could get what I need order when I'm making an order. I I prefer to go with this this solution instead. And you know, that's the context, as a company will notice that and say, Well, we need to do to to fix that if you know, there's always something that that will come up and say, well, we need to be able to plan for the future, and we need to be able to grow
David Thomson: you know. Maybe there's you know, this last one is a really, maybe there's I don't know if you're familiar with a lot of the consumer privacy laws that happen where a customer can just have their account totally removed from your company and get all their data back. These data privacy laws, you know, they require. And that's a that's a definitely a context that you need to consider
David Thomson: And coming up with a solution. You know the essentially the
David Thomson: the the laws have changed, or you know something that you have to take advantage of. That context can sometimes be a very, very large driver for a need for a solution.
David Thomson: So I won't. I won't read through all these, I promise but an exam tip here, get to know these terms. Obviously, business analysis. That's a key one. You know the practice of enabling change in enterprise that by defining needs
David Thomson: and recommending solutions that deliver value to stakeholders. That that's something you definitely get tested on. You know, knowing what those are. But these are terms that you did just once. You once you understand them and use them. They just become part of you know your living and breathing work, of your of your business analysis. You know design enterprise. Organization plan
David Thomson: requirement.
David Thomson: you know. If you've been a business analyst for a while or done any kind of business analysis work. You probably use the word requirement 50 times a day. Risk is something, you know, that
David Thomson: we as business analysts, help to identify and analyze impact. But certainly, if you've been a project manager before, your risk is something that's always on your mind. So I definitely would suggest reading through these, there's a lot of good examples of these in the back, and just make yourself very familiar with those.
David Thomson: Let's see requirement, classification, schema. And I I love this. I argue over sometimes. You know, we're classifying requirements. Some.
David Thomson: It's I feel like it's a good idea to classify requirements. If you can, especially if you're using a requirements traceability, matrix, it's it's feel I like to categorize. I'll I'll also show an example of a requirements. Traceability. Matrix. I believe in this presentation.
David Thomson: but yeah, to be able to classify how your how your requirements are, whether they're functional requirements, transitional requirements, non functional requirements, you know. Business requirements.
David Thomson: business requirements can be stakeholder requirements, too. So there's a fine line between some of these. But the Babok goes into really good detail on those. I would certainly make yourself familiar with these different types of requirements. In the.
David Thomson: And then the stakeholders.
David Thomson: Here's more examples of some stakeholders, as you can see. We went through some of these already. But
David Thomson: yeah.
Tejas Sriprasad: Hey!
David Thomson: Question.
Tejas Sriprasad: Hi, yeah, good question just to transition requirements, and how it relates to context, how it relates to context. Thank you so much. How does that relate to context? Essentially, when when we look at stakeholder site, stakeholder, stakeholder, stakeholder identification? And then from there making sure that we identify the proper stakeholders reach out to them without stepping out of bounds within our own team.
David Thomson: Yeah, well, I think it's important, you know, as you're as you're identifying. Help me if I'm not getting your question correctly. But you know I did, 1st identifying those stakeholders and what they're
David Thomson: I like to always track what their what their stake is, you know not just who they are and what their role is, or their title is, what their stake is in this, in the solution or the initiative that we're doing. And then a transition requirement is something that may impact them. For example, it could be a organizational change management. It could be a matter of data transformation
David Thomson: transitioning from one state to another from one solution to another, identifying a
David Thomson: for example, what changes on a system? What data needs to be staged to be ready for the system. How how are users gonna be trained? Those kind of things? Are are really transition requirements. So working with your stakeholders and being able to understand what their real stake is, what their potential biases. Let's say, for example, you're working with a stakeholder who's
David Thomson: who's not really tech savvy? Or doesn't really like tech savvy solutions? And maybe his, his or her team will be maybe a little more. Need a little more hand holding as far as embracing.
David Thomson: perhaps more of a technical solution. That'd be something that you wanna make note of, and your stakeholder matrix and think about that, especially when you think about those transition requirements and anything that they might.
Tejas Sriprasad: Me.
Tejas Sriprasad: yeah, the the transition requirements really help. Because what we're doing is is basically going from one system to another system. But just the data wise. So, but, like you said, the stakeholders stakeholders are stakeholders are extremely important. Stakeholders, extremely important. Know the stake? Why, they have the stake and also have a clear picture and vision of clear picture and vision of the data elements that are moving. And then user training, of course, that you mentioned that really helped a lot. So thank you. Yeah.
David Thomson: Great. Okay? Glad to. Glad to help answer that. Yeah. Sure.
David Thomson: Let's see. And then finally, about the the key concepts. Definitely,
David Thomson: talking about the difference between the different types of requirements like we were talking about, and where design fits in right design is something that you're always thinking about the requirements, lend themselves to to the design. And this is something, especially when you're doing requirements, traceability, matrix. You want to see in that matrix where
David Thomson: where the design is, fulfill, where the requirement is fulfilled by the design. So for example, if there's a a granular business requirement to
David Thomson: make the system perform in a certain
David Thomson: you know. Forgive me, I always think about systems. I'm an it, guy. But you know, if the system's supposed to perform within a certain amount of time process a certain thing you want to show in the design where that where that requirement is fulfilled so that your stakeholders can see it, and you it also can
David Thomson: show where where that requirement not only is fulfilled in the design, but where it's been tested and signed off on as as a real solution, so that the value of you know, eliciting that requirement from the stakeholders and and creating a design for it.
David Thomson: Is fulfilled, and the value is brought brought to bear for those for those stakeholders, and that really helps that helps bring you, especially when you're thinking about it from a transition or organizational change management perspective. You're you're showing the the the stakeholder that you heard the requirement we documented, we designed a solution for it. We've tested it, and it's ready to go. When we transition to start using the solution.
David Thomson: So yeah, so that's that's the key concepts. Any questions about that before we move into
David Thomson: the Bapum business analysis, planning and monitoring.
David Thomson: Yes.
Tejas Sriprasad: Hi so another question. When when we talk also, we also mentioned the context of circumstances that that, influenced by back slides back? In the context in how do you define a context with differing with with data changing from with data changing from one system to another system. And you're mostly just doing functional requirements sort of
Tejas Sriprasad: on the phone call inside.
David Thomson: Well, I think of context, and more in the on the way of
David Thomson: you know the the circumstances over that change, for example. What's the context of the of a change that's requiring to move data from one system to the other, you know, maybe it's maybe it's moving from a legacy system to an erp system, for example. And
David Thomson: you know there may be some. The context may be for the, for the purposes of being.
David Thomson: you know, being able to to audit the the system better, you know, be able to have a traceability of any of the system changes. For example, the context would be in in the context, we're we're moving to this to this new solution in order to to get us to the point where we're in compliance with any regulations. For example.
Tejas Sriprasad: So that that would be the that would be the overall context and say, Move, why, you would be moving from one system, another system. But not only just. Thank you. Or not, only just no system once it's another system, but also what would be some of the non functional requirements around that as well. You should, you should worry about because it's used a lot like, if you think about data retention and stuff between systems, so you could possibly do that as well. Right, sir.
David Thomson: Yeah, I would say, for sure, yeah, what are the circumstances beyond that are driving the change, you know. What is the the business driver, and maybe the regulatory driver and the example I was using. But yeah, yeah, definitely keeping those in mind.
David Thomson: Appreciate that. Thank you so much. Thank you sure?
David Thomson: All right.
David Thomson: Glad to answer. Let's see.
David Thomson: So now we'll we'll move on and start talking about bapm. And 1st time I heard anybody say Bapum, I thought they were saying Batman so that's how we that's how we call business analysis planning and monitoring. So if you hear anybody say Bapm, you know they're talking about business analysis, planning and monitoring.
David Thomson: But
David Thomson: you know, this is this is like the 1st knowledge area that the digs into. And it's not always the 1st one that we get drawn into as business analysts, or those who may not be a titled business analyst. But if you're doing the work of business analysis. Sometimes you're dropped in the middle of requirement solicitation. Without going through this this foundational step. Sometimes, you know, you have to kind of
David Thomson: throw your hands up and say, You know, what? What are we doing, and why are we doing this? And how are we doing this?
David Thomson: sometimes you have to do this at night because you've been thrown into a project meeting you just heard about. So business analysis, planning and monitoring is something. Even if you don't start out with it, it's good to go. Go back to it and make sure that you're you're planning and kind of playing catch up with it. I I like there's some really good lessons in in this knowledge area.
David Thomson: But anyway, it's it's what helps coordinate and plan business. How business analysis will occur. Helps kind of set the table for how you're gonna how you're gonna do analysis oops. I just move that again.
David Thomson: what you need to figure out what needs to be done to perform the analysis. How you're gonna manage that effort and monitor it. You know that's a key thing monitoring how well it's working.
David Thomson: and and then also how to improve the work of business analysis. You know. How could we do this better next time.
David Thomson: So with all of the knowledge areas in the Babak, you'll get this. This kind of context. And I've I've created this from what the Babak has everything has an input
David Thomson: and everything has an output. And then it identifies the tasks that happen during during each of these knowledge areas. So so in order to do the tasks in here which are plan, the business analysis, approach.
David Thomson: plan, stakeholder, engagement, plan, business analysis, governance.
David Thomson: plan, business analysis, information management and identify business analysis, form performance improvements, the inputs for that are what are the the initiatives, the needs, business needs. You know. What are maybe the what are we doing? Why are we doing this initiative? And then what are some performance objectives? And those could be things that
David Thomson: you know, you might have to dig up by working with the stakeholders, for example.
David Thomson: and what we're hoping to get out of a solution, what our ultimate goal is. So some of the out. And this is real simple, too. If you look at the task.
David Thomson: the output of each task is, you know, planning the business analysis. Approach. Your output should be the business analysis approach
David Thomson: same thing with stakeholder engagement approach. You get that governance, approach, information management approach, and then your business analysis, performance, assessment. So these, these, the tasks, all have their own similarly named output. The reason why they have numbers in front of a 3.1 3.2 3.3. These are all 3 is the chapter number where business analysis, planning, and monitoring is in the
David Thomson: in the Babak. And so
David Thomson: for the other knowledge areas there'll be like 4, 5, 6. So you'll be able to to remember those. It's important, particularly if you're taking the Ccpa or Cbap exam, to know
David Thomson: all the inputs, all the outputs and all the tasks for all the knowledge areas. So just to worry about that, we'll dig into each one of these areas. Throughout this. So let me just check in the time. Here, we're good. So let's start off with this planning the business analysis approach. So you think about this in a perfect world, and the Babak outlines for us a perfect world.
David Thomson: None of us. Probably. I hope
David Thomson: I'm not alone in saying this. None of us live in a perfect business analysis world. The Babak is its own area, and it would be nice if our day to day work
David Thomson: went went the way that Babak shows us, no matter how hard you try, just can't, can't make it be that perfect but ideally, you have the opportunity, when you're brought in to work on an initiative.
David Thomson: to have the time to think, to sit there and think about how we're going to do this analysis. Sometimes you're just doing this a few minutes before you go into your 1st meeting for project or whatever. But taking that time to plan our approach, how are we going to do this? What type? Of what type of initiative is this? Is this the type of initiative where
David Thomson: where it's predictive, where we we're going to go ahead and do all of our business analysis, we're gonna document all the requirements. And then when we're when we're satisfied with that, and everything's got a nice bow on it, then we're gonna start executing.
David Thomson: Or is it an adaptive one? Let's build a minimal viable product and see how it goes and do it. Do it. This iteratively. And and you know, have our have our requirements. Be just in time, depending upon our needs. And so understanding the approach of the the build of the solution or the the initiative itself is really helpful to that. That helps to
David Thomson: for you to identify as business analyst. What's the formality level, you know? Am I gonna need formal business requirements, documents? Brds, or am I just gonna do user stories with acceptance criteria, you know. In in a system like Jira or something like that? What are some of the business analysis activities. Am I gonna need to do do I need to do things like
David Thomson: illustation of requirements? Or are they already spelled out for us? Do I need to understand who the stakeholders are? Are? Try to to make do surveys do use techniques like, focusing on focus groups. You know, what are some of the things?
David Thomson: What are some of the activities? Do I think we're gonna have to to do in order to make this make this initiative move along. How we're gonna time, are they? You know. Is it going to be
David Thomson: are we gonna do this within a period of you know, 3 months or 2 weeks or 2 years? What are the activities, you know, giving us time to think about what what this looks like. You know. Sometimes you're working very closely with product owners or project managers or other analysts other subject matter experts trying to understand this. And
David Thomson: you know, one of the keys is figuring out what some of the risks are for the approach and how we're gonna how we're gonna handle risks. And you know, making sure that the you know, whatever approach you decide on making sure that the stakeholders are on board on that. So that's a key. 1st step.
David Thomson: Planning the stakeholder engagement, you know. That's that's gives understanding who your stakeholders are sometimes that takes a little bit of digging on behalf of the
David Thomson: of the
David Thomson: the business analyst. I've I've had projects where I've been engaged on where the project manager said, Oh, here are the here are the stakeholders. We've already done this work, and then you start asking questions, and you realize, maybe there's a few more stakeholders that we haven't thought of. Who who else will be impacted by by this change or this initiative?
David Thomson: So a racy chart is a really good thing to have. I got a quick example. I think all of us have probably worked with racy charts. I have a real funny example of one.
David Thomson: you know, like I said before, understanding the attitudes or perspectives, maybe the biases of the of the the stakeholders, you know. Oh, they're not. They're not very pleased with
David Thomson: with the, you know, with this sap system, or they're not. They don't like using Macintosh or something, you know they're not they're not they. They're not really wanting to do things the way
David Thomson: the way we do it at corporate. They want to do it their own way. You know things like that. You'd kind of think about those things in order to help manage them. These are things you typically, you should document you know. Think, ask the stakeholders what their goals are. They may differ from other stakeholders. You know, that's that's really good thing to to find out, you know, when you get to the end, and you have a solution in place and you realize
David Thomson: their stakeholder. One State stakeholder group doesn't like what what has been done once one stakeholder group loves well, they had different goals and different objectives. So it's good to know that early and by planning that stakeholder engagement. A couple of other key things that I'd like to think about are their geographic location. How do we engage them? You know, maybe they're maybe they're across the world in a different time zone, and when we want to meet every day at noon Eastern time.
David Thomson: it's 2 o'clock in the morning where they're at right. So that might be not might not be the best time to to reach that stakeholder group. You don't want to.
David Thomson: you'll want to miss out on their input. Maybe you have to adjust. I had a team get mad at me one time, because every morning at 7 Am. We needed to work with a team that was in another time zone. You know that was the best time to get them. Otherwise they were have to stay up late. So you know, to little given, give and take. Maybe there's a difference in language, you know. Maybe there's you need to engage some software or something, or or get folks that can
David Thomson: can help translate. Maybe this is a little bit of organizational change management. So I. I talk a lot about stakeholder engagement, because I think it is so. Key building relationships with their stakeholders, understanding what their their pain is or what their biases, or what their level of interest is. Really helps to drive for a more successful initiative.
David Thomson: So here's an example, or I won't go over it. But here's here's an example. I found this on the on the web
David Thomson: from some website for project managers, but I liked it because it's it's the Lord of the Rings movie book you know racy chart. So I I think this is a funny one. But you can see, you know who's consulted, who's responsible? Who's accountable and who's informed?
David Thomson: this is a lot of times. This helps to surface some of these, you know. Oh, I'm just I just I just want to be informed of this. I don't have to be held accountable for it. I don't. Wanna. I don't want to be responsible for this. You know, whatever that is. Definitely, a racy chart is a great technique to utilize, and the Baba talks a little bit more about racing charts, so something to keep in mind.
David Thomson: We won't dwell on that
David Thomson: But planning business analysis, governance, that's 1 of the next tasks.
David Thomson: determine who your key decision who can make your key decisions? You know. It's like, Oh, well, we're just gonna say, this is good. Well, if if some person doesn't isn't able to make that that decision, what's the escalation path, you know? Who there's is there a, for example, a steering committee for the group
David Thomson: who's authorized to make these changes? And you need to define that escalation path. What do we do about changes things that might impact
David Thomson: the this cost time. You know, maybe the maybe you're bringing in a partner to help you work on them and their time and materials. And wow, this could really blow up the budget example, understanding that. Just say, Oh, yeah, we'll go do this now, you know. So the budget doesn't get blown up, or or whatever how you're gonna document and communicate those changes
David Thomson: you know who signs off on them is is a really key. This is a step typically project. Managers own this. But the business analysts can really help and number one in in helping to enforce this, and also to make sure that
David Thomson: you know that it's well documented on what that what that plan is, and also making sure sometimes we get to be responsible for making sure that the folks are following the governance process. And if you're not following the governance process a lot of times that can get you into trouble with with this, with your stakeholders and with the steering committee. If they're just steering committee on the project. So
David Thomson: it's a great idea for the BA or the person doing the business analysis task to be able to
David Thomson: to make sure that the team is on board with how we're gonna do our information management as well.
David Thomson: you know, how are we gonna all this, all these these documents that we're creating on this on this Doc, on this
David Thomson: this initiative. You know, we have all these spreadsheets, these word documents. And maybe we have these flow charts. How are we gonna share this. How are we gonna
David Thomson: how we gonna where we're gonna store it, how we're gonna put it in sharepoint, or we're gonna put it in a network drive somewhere. How we're gonna we're gonna print them all out, or whatever whatever that approach is. You know, figuring out what we really need to do. There, that's that's a key, because you'll find some projects where people just put it
David Thomson: wherever they want to. And then when at the end of the initiative. You're like, okay, where's where's all our our designs and everything you have to do a little bit of detective work to make sure you got everything. Plan out how you're gonna trace requirements.
David Thomson: To design, you know. You know, requirements. Traceability, matrix is a great way. Pretty sure I have an example of that next slide. That, you know, shows where those requirements are. I talked a little bit about this as far as in a transition. You could have transition requirements. You know, as well to show how how the requirement is fulfilled in the design.
David Thomson: And then also, you know, along with the each requirement. Think about some of the regulations, the
David Thomson: and they're into the risks of of specific requirements and help to track some of those things down.
David Thomson: And here's a very, very simple example of a requirements traceability matrix. This is an example I've used in the past. Just a couple of quick things about it. First, st your 1st column. This is just a simple spreadsheet. I like to do it in spreadsheets because you can filter these and you can sort them. It's good that every requirement should have its own unique identifier.
David Thomson: Give it a good description and understand what the priority is. Other requirements are very. All these requirements are high priority, of course. And there have been a lot of stakeholder interviews on this. This is all made up, of course, but
David Thomson: and there's a lot of different stakeholder requirements, nonfunctional requirements. Here's a transition requirement.
David Thomson: I like to do an objective of of requirements, you know. That's not something that necessarily talk. What? What's the point of this? This?
David Thomson: this requirement? Design rep is, if you know, let's say, let's say you're working in a system like Jira.
David Thomson: Oh, okay. So you're working a system like Jira. You maybe put a link to that design. Rep. Or if you have a design document, you can have a link to that design document. And what section in that design document where that requirement is fulfilled. If you're having test cases documented wherever you have those documented, you could have a reference to where that test case is
David Thomson: you can have a status
David Thomson: of where that requirement is. It's being designed or being built or tested or implemented, whatever that status is, and then you have a section for comments. This is a this is a real, simple template that you can use and adapt and add columns to it. I've I've had requirements, trace abilities that had twice as many columns on it. Some with fewer, but just something you can adapt. This is a pretty simple way of
David Thomson: starting to collect those requirements. I've even taken a requirements, traceability, matrix, and exported it, and to and and to import it to Jira itself to make
David Thomson: to make sure that all those requirements are in Jira and traced there as well. And then I put back the the Jira number and into the traceability matrix. So
David Thomson: so it's a great thing to do. It's something I would recommend checking out.
David Thomson: This is a tough one this next one about identifying Va performance improvements. You know. But it's always good, you know. It's kind of like the what they say, sharpening the saw, making sure that you're continuing to improve as you go along. How are we gonna measure how? How well we've done on this on this
David Thomson: business analysis that we're working on. You know you're establishing your performance
David Thomson: targets for that. You know, and identifying throughout the initiative. You know how well, things are going, you know.
David Thomson: you know, understanding. If you're these are the key ones. That the suggests. Your accuracy and completeness, you know, is what you're doing correct? Does the business analyst have the knowledge and skills and experience? You know, you might be dropped into a project in a domain that you're not familiar with you know, making sure that you have the skills and experience needed to. Or you, maybe you're building those skills in the initiative that you're working on
David Thomson: are are the things that you're coming up with? Let's say you're doing. Flow charts, are they? Are they having an desired effect, or stakeholders scratching their head over the your flow chart because they can't read it, you know.
David Thomson: are you getting the support that you need from from the organizational resources.
David Thomson: You know, are you is
David Thomson: is what you're doing. Significant was the cost and effort of business analysis justified a lot of times. People say, Why do we need business analysts? For you know, if we're providing helping, I like to say business analysis, one of the great things about it is, it helps to bring that common understanding.
David Thomson: Help building those those pathways between stakeholders and development teams. Or, you know, solution providers to making sure that they're all on the same page, and that the solutions and that is being being built or implemented is, you know, driving the value that the team is expecting. So
David Thomson: you know, were the strategic objectives met, you know, was the solution that build or the improvements made really having an effect and making those strategic goals being met and was the work delivered on time. These are some things you can think about when you think about performance improvements and tracking your work or the work of your teammates? And holding holding each other, especially if you're on a
David Thomson: on initiative where there are multiple business analysts, making sure that the team is being held accountable and and always striving to improve. So
David Thomson: oh, we've made it to the end. My goodness!
David Thomson: Any questions about Papum.
Tejas Sriprasad: Just a quick question in in when what was the difference between stakeholder requirements and and stakeholder requirements? Everything is stakeholder requirements. Right, sir.
David Thomson: Yeah, the business requirement? You know it. It's depending, depending on who your who your stakeholder is.
David Thomson: and you can categorize them as a stakeholder requirement or business requirement, you know. Let's say, for example, you have technical requirements. You can say this is one of the stakeholders is as a technical person, maybe a system administrator, they might have a specific requirement or security. Admin. Let's say, that's a good. That's a good. That's even a better one, because the security team might say, you have to have such and such encryption on a solution.
David Thomson: And they're they're one of the stakeholders versus. It's not necessarily a business requirement. Your business, the business is saying, we need to implement a solution that allows us to transmit data. Blah blah, the security requirement, and you can. You could call it. You could even call it a security requirement, I would say, you know, just to make it plain and clear, but they are a stakeholder.
David Thomson: And making sure I think you can use the terms interchangeably, depending upon the context of the stakeholder.
David Thomson: There's no
David Thomson: there's nothing chiseled in stone on that by definitely, and the requirements traceability, matrix gives you that flexibility to do that.
Tejas Sriprasad: Thank you, sir.
David Thomson: Sure.
Tejas Sriprasad: Yeah. And so you, you basically trace the requirements like, this is the stakeholder. These are the transition requirement. I like how that works potentially.
David Thomson: Yeah, go back to to this? Yeah, essentially.
Tejas Sriprasad: Thank you.
David Thomson: This?
David Thomson: this is a this is a key artifact, I think, to be able to say, what were those requirements? How did we fulfill them. If you look at this, if you were to use this as an example and say, Well, this, this one obvious, this what we're seeing on screen is obviously not
David Thomson: not been implemented yet. Right? So there's no design reference. So the design hasn't been done yet. This would. This would be early on when you're at the requirements solicitation stage at this point. Right? You're you're gathering these requirements. Yeah, a lot of people don't like the word gathering. You're listening. These requirements. You're documenting these requirements, but you're still not to the stage, you see, because these are these columns are blank, that you don't have a design reference for them.
David Thomson: There's you haven't tested them, you know. There's no real status on them, because you're just at the point of of getting these requirements out. So, yeah, this is a can be a very powerful tool.
Tejas Sriprasad: Yeah, definitely. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
David Thomson: Like, I said, I like to use. I like to do this in excel, because I can sort these columns, and and I can filter, you know, and say, Hey, what are all our high priority requirements? Well, in this state they're all. However, this is probably me. I just put high on everyone and copy and paste it. But but you know, you could have some that are lower lower requirements, of course, for a stakeholder if they are. Gonna if they're gonna mention a requirement, it's probably high priority to them.
David Thomson: That's true.
Tejas Sriprasad: Yeah, because it has to be sorry it has to be stakehold. They have to be stakeholder right? Because but if you're saying transition and and which it seems like when in a transition, especially data field, when it's data related, would you treat that differently? Meaning would you say it's data requirements almost, and refer.
David Thomson: There's yeah. There's really no, I mean those those categories of requirements that the Babak lists, you know they're they're not chiseled in stone, either. As I said before, you know. You can call them what you want. I think you know
David Thomson: and I don't think there's anything holding us to calling them by by the requirement
David Thomson: requirement classification that they use. Because we live in the real world like, I said, right? So we can call them whatever. My, my whole thing. And I've said this before is is just making sure that that we, doing the business analysis work are bringing that common understanding to our stakeholders, you know, and like. I hate to keep harping on this this traceability matrix. But this is that way, and we'll see this when we start talking about
David Thomson: requirement, solicitation, and especially requirements, analysis and design definition in future chapters, that this can be the basis for that. You know, this is this can be the basis of getting the stakeholders together and getting agreement on what the priorities are, and bringing that common understanding so that the stakeholders understand.
David Thomson: You know what some of those some of those key things are that other stakeholders might be looking for and helping with that negotiation, so that you get a better fitting solution for all the stakeholders, and not just one group of stakeholders, you know. I remember I was on a project years and years ago. Luckily I wasn't the BA. On this project, but
David Thomson: you know the the development team heard some heard some requirements, went off for like 6 months or 8 months, and built a solution for it.
Tejas Sriprasad: And.
David Thomson: And at the end of it,
David Thomson: They delivered this solution, and the and the stakeholders essentially said.
David Thomson: We can't use this, you know. Our requirements have changed. They were just in this in this vacuum, you know, in this room developing a solution. And they weren't working with all of the stakeholders to make sure that their needs are being fulfilled, and that the solution that they were working on was meeting, that their criteria that was needed and they weren't aware of any of the changes. So that was a lesson learned by that team to to say, you know.
David Thomson: making sure that all the stakeholders are on the same page, and they've all all signed off on the requirements, and and all agree on the priority of those requirements is a real key thing.
David Thomson: Yeah.
Tejas Sriprasad: Thank you. Thank you.
David Thomson: You're welcome.
Tejas Sriprasad: Yeah, thank you. And then check the sign off and the feedback on that requirement as well. Right?
David Thomson: Yeah, you could have a column on there on the date it was signed off on. And
David Thomson: in the context of that, yeah, for sure.
David Thomson: Yeah, like, I said, you can, you can expand this matrix out multiple multiple columns. Whatever meets your need for sure.
Tejas Sriprasad: Thank you, sir.
David Thomson: Yeah.
David Thomson: Oh, there he is.
Mapule Sedirwa: Just one quick question. Sorry.
David Thomson: Yes.
Mapule Sedirwa: I just want to. Would you use the requirements? Metrics? Let's say you have. The brt is already approved and signed off.
Mapule Sedirwa: and during the system development by the developers, then we identify a another new requirement. What would you then do? Would you use the requirement visibility requirement? Would you go and open the document that has already been approved, or what would happen then?
David Thomson: Yeah, that's a great. That's a great question.
David Thomson: I, this is what I would do. If, if, after the after you've done your requirements, traceability matrix, and you and you have your requirements listed in a Brd that has been signed off on that would be definitely a change. You know, we were talking earlier about the governance approach.
David Thomson: What do we do about that? Hopefully at? And you're working on your business analysis, planning that you're thinking about what that government approaches and what those steps are. So it could be different by project. But.
David Thomson: you know, depending upon what the what the initiative participants and the and the project management and the stakeholders have agreed upon for the for the change management process. But definitely, yeah, it sounds to me like you would want to update your requirements, traceability, matrix, and then also
David Thomson: depending on what your change change part is, either make an amendment and and get another sign off on that amendment to your Brd. Or or maybe it's a separate change. It could be different, depending on how you're defining your governance approach.
David Thomson: Does that help.
Mapule Sedirwa: Yes, it does help but sorry in this case, they said amongst through a post Uat document, then I should add one of those requirements? What like 2 of those new requirements that were identified.
David Thomson: Okay are are those are those like enhancements that users that were doing the uit found and said, Hey, we really needed to do this instead is, that is, that kind of how that was.
Mapule Sedirwa: One of them was a look and feel, you know.
David Thomson: Yeah.
Mapule Sedirwa: Like we have the look and feel of this page. You know, things like that. So I was like, Okay, fine, we can edit, and then the other one. It was
Mapule Sedirwa: something that the user would have to do. Yeah.
David Thomson: Yeah, I I think you know, I always always like to plan for. You know what I've what I've I've heard from project managers before is, when are you gonna be done with the requirements? Right? And they're like, okay, well, we have to go through system testing.
David Thomson: And we have to go through user user acceptance test. Typically, you know, it depends on the initiative. Though user acceptance testing is the point is is a scary point. It's like a slippery slope when the users can give their feedback, and they will be able to say, Oh, no, no, I like this, but I want a radio button here instead of a checkbox, or I don't like the layout of this. There, there.
David Thomson: there are new requirements that come out of Uat, and so, as a project. You need to say, Okay, we hear you. We're going to document that maybe we'll do that later, or it's like, Oh, we have to do this before we go further on in this project. You know that that goes back to that whole change change process, too. It's like, what are we gonna do about? Do we send the developers back to make this fix now? Or do we? Do? We say, okay, well, we heard we heard you wanted to look like that. The next version
David Thomson: we'll make make it look that way, for example. So that that goes back to
David Thomson: you know, depending upon upon what the what the approach is, the design, the change, change management approach that that's a key point. So you're right, though the uat can can delve, you know, delve when users delve into the uat, they can come up with all kinds of new requirements that maybe you haven't heard before.
David Thomson: Sometimes your your representatives of your stakeholders may not really understand, you know, if you, if you're talk, one of your stakeholders is a manager of some team. Maybe they don't get their hands on the on the system, or the or the process, or whatever you know, as they. Maybe they don't understand it as well as the people that are actually gonna be using it. So when you have the Uat user acceptance testing.
David Thomson: you really get some new new things pop up. Sometimes it's definitely something that happens. But I would say, Yeah, definitely go back to the the project government project process and just make sure that that the team is on board, and and it could be the point of like, hey, let's decide whether we do this now or we do this later.
David Thomson: does that help anymore.
Mapule Sedirwa: Yes, it does help. Thank you so much.
David Thomson: You're welcome. You're welcome.
David Thomson: I think the key is just making sure. And that's that goes back to this business analysis plan. Make sure that you, you help define that governance approach and make sure that it's documented on an initiative. And, like, I said a lot of times, the the project. Managers do that themselves. We'll do that. We do that. You know that you kind of a fight over who gets to do that.
David Thomson: But as business analysis professionals, we we can be there and say, No, let's make sure that we document this. Let's make sure that all of our stakeholders understand that process so that they're not changes that are popping up all the time. That are, you know, going to turn a 3 month project into a 3 year project.
David Thomson: So yeah, it's great, great, great example of
David Thomson: of of how work that's impacting you. I'm sure. And yeah, we can go back. I I like to think of the Babak as you know the tool I use the Babak.
David Thomson: you know. I've been in Cbap for like 4 years now, and I go back to the Babak. I have the Pdf version on my.
David Thomson: on my, on my computer, and I just bring it up every now and then, just to correct kind of remind me of where I should be. You know what? What are the right steps? And I don't have it all memorized, of course, but I use it as a tool to go back and say, Well, this is the
David Thomson: this is the way the bad box, even though we all live in a real world. But you know it's it's super helpful to to go back to that and say, You know, it's like this is a great approach and getting your your coworkers on on board with it as well.
David Thomson: So yeah.
David Thomson: I think we're out of time now. Jordan, anything else you would you would like to add.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Sure. Yeah, thanks so much, David, for for the presentation.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: We'll have a follow up email after this with links to the recording and other details. So, yeah, thanks everyone for joining us.
David Thomson: Yeah. And to Jordan I can. I can. Also, I've got a a template of that requirements traceability matrix. I'd be glad to add, if you want to include.
Jordan - IIBA East Tennessee: Oh, yes, yes, please, please do that. We'll attach that to the email.
David Thomson: Sure. Great! It's a good starting point.
David Thomson: Fantastic thanks, everybody for joining. It was really nice to be able to talk to you guys, and I hope you
David Thomson: have a great evening.
Anna Longuski: Okay. Thank you.
David Thomson: Yeah, sure.
Tejas Sriprasad: Thank you. Everybody. Thank you.
David Thomson: Thanks.
Mapule Sedirwa: Thank you. Bye.
David Thomson: Bye.